Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Here we bloody go again...
Breathe your way through it, Joan,
breathe your way through it.
Breathe through it.
That's right, that's right!
Good girl.
Good girl...
That's right.
'I saw a thousand dawns
when I was working in the East End.
'A thousand fresh beginnings.
'Every day a world made new.'
'There were challenges
and changes but always
'the sense of life forging forward,
'pulsing like the River Thames
itself.'
I know it's been a long night,
but you're doing so well.
She ain't had nothing to eat
since dinner last night,
it's no wonder she's weak.
I brought her an iced bun.
I hate iced buns.
Not just now, Mrs Wiggs.
Maybe later.
Do you want it?
Actually, I'd love it.
Mmm!
I'm going to end up with
Sister Evangelina!
Oh, look, there he is!
Look at that!
Feels like home already!
I always say,
it's the little things that count.
We had hoped for a red carpet,
and a marching band!
Where the bright Seraphim
in burning row
Their loud uplifted
angel trumpets blow
And the Cherubic host
of thousand choirs
Touch their immortal harps
of golden wires!
Hello, Sister Monica Joan.
Are you settling in?
Those who went before us
in this place
have left a most vaporous trail.
It's the smell of wet paint.
But she won't be told.
Thank you.
Keep going! Good girl! Keep going!
Good!
Good things
come to those who wait, Joan!
I can see the baby's head.
I'm scared...
You listen to the nurse, love.
She's done this hundred times.
Haven't you?
Absolutely.
A little boy, Joan.
And he's beautiful!
Oh, Joan!
'In textbooks there are no lessons
in digging deep,
'in finding one last hour
of strength to see you through.
'But in Poplar I learned all of this
and more.'
There! Wasn't that all worth it?
I could sleep for ever.
And I don't care
if I never sleep again.
Hello, Merle.
Sounds like someone
wants his elevenses!
"Someone" wants his elevenses
morning, noon and night.
And if I ain't feeding him,
I'm changing his drawers.
It can take a while for a baby to
get into a new routine.
Was your other little boy
unsettled as a newborn?
Ian? Not half! It's like I can't do
anything right, sometimes.
Does Martin look all right to you?
I can't see anything amiss.
Why don't you
pop into our Tuesday clinic?
We can give him
the once-over, if you're worried.
I never know where they are, since
they knocked the Parish Hall down.
I'm sorry. We're still on the hunt
for a permanent venue.
But we're at the Seaman's Mission
next week. Do come.
I'll try.
If his nibs is less unsettled.
Now, I've done
exactly what the book says,
and rolled the pastry
into a rectangle!
Rectangle.
Next, I just dot the pastry with
a previously prepared paste
of butter and lard, thus...
Now I then fold the pastry over -
like so!
And then repeat the action
four times,
whilst the pie filling simmers
on a low light!
And one single titter from you,
young sir, and I'll take you
to the mirror, and show you what
a naughty monkey looks like!
Knock-knock!
Guess what?
They've put us in together!
We can shimmy to the Dansette every
night, like Pinky and Perky.
Where's Cynthia?
Well, they put her in the box
room at the end. We tossed a coin.
You don't mind, do you?
I've never heard anyone say
that I snore.
Trixie, I could sleep in the funnel
of the Queen Mary right now.
Milk Tray?
They were a gift from the bunion
lady in Colette Street.
I've eaten the Turkish Delight.
I'll have the lime barrel
and the almond whirl.
I'll ruin my lunch,
but I don't care.
If I were you,
I'd eat the chocolates
and just sneak 40 winks.
Why?
Chummy's bringing it.
Oh.
Bally, bally botheration.
Something smells nice!
It isn't for you! What was it?
Individual chicken
and mushroom pies with flaky pastry.
And don't even
ask about the coconut blancmange!
Camilla. You try too hard.
Look after the baby!
There's a Tupperware full of stewed
pears if he's hungry,
and if he starts turning his head
to the left, that means he's tired.
Bye-bye, Mummy.
Can I have some of the pears?
I found the enema nozzles
and the rubber tubes.
The labouring women
of Poplar will be thrilled.
I can't believe how much space
we have!
I feel like demanding roller-skates,
to get me from one cupboard
to another.
No point in a clinical room
the size of County Hall,
if the autoclave doesn't work.
It's been on for ten minutes, and
it's about as hot as the North Pole!
Sorry, Sister,
but we've lost a few spirit lamps.
Put them in the dustbin.
I shall have to go back to the
Post Office,
to see why the telephone hasn't been
connected.
Is everything all right,
Sister Monica Joan?
I ventured through a door
and uncovered something that
disturbed me.
What, Sister?
It disturbs you, too. I surmise
its purpose is a dark one.
It is a urinal. You must try not
to let it upset you.
The building used to be a training
school for parish workers but Fred's
going to strip all that out, so
that we can use it as a store room.
I think it is the source of the
vapours I detected.
Come to the cookhouse door, ladies.
Luncheon is served.
Home-cooked food!
What could be better?
My dear Sister Winifred!
I am so glad you have come to us!
You cannot begin to imagine how
welcome you are.
Now, not too heavy with the tomato
sauce. It's very expensive.
Everyone!
This is Sister Winifred, who has
come to live and work with us.
Hello, Sister Winifred.
Hello! I'm delighted to be here.
She joins Nonnatus
from the Mother House at Chichester.
What a perfectly frightful journey.
This is Nurse Franklin,
Nurse Miller, and Mrs Noakes,
who used to nurse with us but has
moved on to the calling of marriage.
Oh, that's nice.
And this is Sister Monica Joan.
Now, come and sit
next to Sister Evangelina.
Hello.
We've met.
It was on my summer holidays.
They had nits in the village school.
That was a very trying week.
Were you a head inspector, Sister?
Head inspector. Nit nurse.
The children used to call me
Nitty Nora the Scalp Explorer,
but I suppose that's just
because there's not many things that
rhyme with Winifred.
Now, haddock, plaice, or saveloy?
I'm frightfully sorry.
The saveloy was not intentional.
I'll have...
whatever no-one else wants.
Correct answer.
Thank you.
Enter.
The patient files are completely
reorganised.
It's time for the finishing touches.
There was no sun in your old
surgery.
Any plant would have withered
and died.
You know, there is a permanent
position for you, if you'd like it.
Receptionist
and all-round saviour of my sanity.
Timmy needs me at home
and so do you.
I love helping out,
but it's part-time, and temporary.
What on earth is that
supposed to say?
"Erythromycin suspension".
I'm going to set you
handwriting exercises.
Whoops! Timber...
You'll get the hang of it.
What's she doing?
I have absolutely no idea.
Ah.
Oh, I'm glad to see you
expanding your skills,
for I require book shelves.
They need to be erected in my room.
Where did you get that wood?
They're revising their display
arrangements at the pet shop.
Sister,
you might have injured yourself!
My books have been in boxes
for far too long.
If they are not set straight,
their contents will jumble,
and become deranged.
Hi, Nurse Lee! Hello!
Well done! Goodness!
I certainly feel as though I've
earned my spurs!
We've only cycled half a mile.
And that was just the warm-up.
We'll call in on Joan Rickart first.
She lives at number nine.
What's that smell?
It's the communal lavatory.
Is it broken?
No, it's just busy.
Wait a moment!
Hello, little boy.
You shouldn't be out here.
Where's your mummy?
I know this family.
I saw the mother just this morning.
Come on, let's get you inside.
Yes.
I can't keep on top of things!
I can't!
I'm never done boiling water
for the washing.
I'm spending half my family
allowance on Stergene.
My hands are splitting open
from forever wringing nappies.
Is he all right?
Well, he's on the dainty side.
Maybe more of a jockey than
a docker!
Are you still giving him the breast?
Yeah, but I top him up with a bottle
cos he's always hungry!
Sorry.
I know that's not really allowed.
I've never met a baby yet
who's read the rule book.
I'll add you to our daily list,
Merle.
We'll call in each morning, and help
you get things on an even keel.
I've just looked up
Martin's birth weight.
He's four weeks old.
He's only gained half a pound.
Topping up, indeed! Breast is best,
every four hours and no arguments.
But the mothers won't listen.
Afternoon, ladies. Settling in?
It's already starting to
feel like home.
Except the phone doesn't work,
so people keep dropping in to
visit unannounced.
Well, phones or no phones,
I wanted to tell you face to face.
We have found a permanent site
for your ante-natal clinic.
At last! At the Council Community
Centre, in Argent Street.
Now the best news of all is
we can have it for two afternoons
a week, not one.
Can clinic still be on a Tuesday?
That's what I want to know.
It's always been on a Tuesday
and I don't want the mothers
messed about any further.
Tuesday - absolutely. And Thursdays,
too - without extra charge.
Oh, this is the best chance
we've ever had of delivering
not just health care,
but health education.
Well, we could give classes
in mothercraft, nutrition,
cookery, exercise.
The list is limitless!
I bet it is.
I actually think it might be
rather marvellous.
Tuesdays are just a relentless
round of weighing, measuring,
and boiling urine.
We never have any time
for teaching other skills.
We need to give classes
in nutrition, for a start.
People think orange jelly's
full of vitamins.
Yes, and don't you think it might be
fun to do things like music
and movement with the toddlers?
Fun?
We're givers of health care.
Not children's entertainers!
Sister Monica Joan, why don't you
sit down and eat with us?
I have not time to while away
an hour in idleness!
I am making
an inventory of my books.
Very strenuous, I'm sure.
Why don't you take the whole plate?
Keep your strength up.
There's some nice
Red Leicester in your sandwich,
and I've popped in a couple
of radishes.
You haven't cut them
into novelty shapes again, have you?
Only I got joshed
by the others last time.
Well, the least one can do is try
and raise a smile!
Midnight lunch is a dismal affair.
I remember it well from
when I was on night shifts.
Thermos.
You take care tonight.
I've got quite enough to keep me
out of mischief.
I'm on the final furlong with
those scatter cushions.
♪ Where are you?
♪..Wish I may, wish I might
♪ Make this wish come true tonight
♪ Searched all over, for the love
♪ You're the one I'm thinking of
♪ Twinkle, twinkle, Little Star,
♪ How I wonder where you are... ♪
Hello, Nonnatus House.
I never thought I'd be so thrilled
to hear the telephone ring.
Hel...
Just about to go on my rounds.
But I had to test the Nonnatus
phone. The wretched thing still
isn't working!
Do you want to hear
something that will cheer you up?
Yes, if you tell me quickly.
We've been courting for precisely
six months today.
I feel rather inclined to tie a
bunch of balloons to this phone box.
I'm on duty, Alec.
Say that again,
but a bit more primly.
What do you think?
It'll do!
Something isn't right, Nurse.
One minute, he's running around,
full of beans, the next, he's
coughing till he nearly chokes.
He doesn't seem feverish,
but we need to rule out infection.
I want the doctor to see both boys,
and, as you've been bottle feeding,
I'd also like to check
that everything's been properly
sterilised.
Are you saying
I can't clean things properly?
I'm never done boiling,
and soaking stuff in Milton!
I don't doubt that for a moment.
But, Merle, when you've no choice
but to wash bottles and nappies
in the same sink, there's always
a chance contamination may occur.
They're never well! Neither of them.
Ian's always had a chest, and I used
to think, he's just a winter baby.
But Martin came in the spring
and if anything, he's worse.
His nappies are a nightmare.
There's so many,
even Billy has to help.
I daren't tell them down the
dockyard.
Ssh...
Nurse! Billy?
When will the doctor come?
Would it be quicker
if I took the nipper to the surgery?
I'll ask Doctor to put
you on his rounds tomorrow.
It isn't an emergency.
Just a puzzle.
I...I had a brother pass away,
when I was little.
He was four. And a quarter.
My mum never likes it
if we leave the quarter off.
I'm sorry.
I sometimes reckon, if he had lived
now, he wouldn't have died.
Times change for the better,
don't they?
Yes. They do.
No sign of the GPO engineers?
I keep pacing up
and down by the telephone in case
they might ring to say
they are on their way.
Which of course they won't.
Because they can't.
And of course if they could, and
they did, they wouldn't actually
need to.
A statement almost
Aristotelian in its logic.
Shelagh, are these really
the only ladies left? Yes.
There are 21 women who
haven't appeared,
and nine of those have previous
missed appointments.
My word, it's all rather palatial
compared to the old Parish Hall.
Am I too late to pick up some
vitamin drops for young sir?
No, you can have vitamin drops,
a full weigh and measure,
an assessment for milk tokens
and an eye test, if you like.
There's no queue, and you're
guaranteed personal attention.
I really am a tail-end Charlie,
aren't I?
I was at church, sorting out some
mildew on the kneelers.
Hardly anybody came, Chummy.
The trouble is,
I'm not sure people know where the
Community Centre is,
or what it's for.
People are used to Parish Halls,
and Missions.
If something doesn't have a saint's
name in front of it, I think
they're a little suspicious.
But at least you're of fixed
abode now.
Time for a leafleting campaign,
methinks!
Chummy, I wish we had the time!
Well, If you haven't, I have.
Oceans of it. Acres.
I'm knee deep in time.
You can have it all.
Sister?
I wondered if I might talk
to you about Sister Monica Joan.
If she approaches you with
cake in your first week,
pick up your skirts and run.
It's all a ruse,
designed to embarrass the unwary.
It's nothing to do with cake,
Sister.
She may be my sister in Christ,
but I swear she would drive
a Methodist to drink!
I am placing the biography of Astley
Cooper, master surgeon,
next to the memoirs of Rousseau,
since I deem it likely they
conversed in life.
The Dewey Decimal system is
altogether too earthbound,
and likely to speak loudest
to pedantic minds.
You have been cutting pages
out of Bibles.
I have excised certain chapters
of the Apocrypha.
The act cannot be heretical -
the Apocrypha is heretical itself.
Urine sample. Now, please.
In case you've forgotten where the
bathroom is,
it's just across the way.
You think my mind is fractured,
and the cause lies in my bladder.
You are no better than Plato,
who believed a woman's womb would
roam her body,
provoking psychological disease.
I have put Plato here,
next to Mr Freud,
so they can be companions
in their ignorance.
Sister. You've been martyr
to your waterworks all winter.
And you know, as well as I do,
that
the slightest infection can bring
you right down.
But I am not brought down now.
I am well!
And filled...with purpose.
I can see that.
I've never been a reader,
I've always been a doer.
Books passed me by when I was young.
Books have been my friends.
I do not intend to forget what
they have taught me.
Sister, I cannot deny that my memory
is sometimes in need of...
..refreshment.
But once a thing is known,
it can never be unknown.
Can it?
No, Sister.
And you be careful
with this edifice.
We don't want it
falling on your foot.
Come on, girls.
Three chest infections
in six months is too many.
It's been more than that.
But sometimes not so bad we feel
we ought not to bother you.
Always bother me.
I'm going to give Ian penicillin,
and call in again
in three days' time.
Nurse, I want some stool samples
from Martin, as soon as
he wakes up. Then he is to have
formula milk only, on prescription.
He's to be weighed daily.
Will that tell us what's wrong?
It may tell us nothing is wrong.
If this is nothing,
then I'm just a lousy mother!
It means I can't feed him!
It means I can't keep him clean!
It means I'll never go an hour
without him screaming!
Merle, no-one is criticising you.
But we need to see if Martin's
actually getting enough food.
That way we can
tackle his upset tummy,
and try and help him put on weight.
You believe he's ill, don't you?
I believe we'll find out one
way or another.
It's a wonderfully enterprising
idea, Mrs Noakes.
But it will be quite
a challenge to organise.
Well, all you have to do is run
the clinic as normal,
and then the displays by the Cubs,
the Sewing Club,
the flower arrangers, and
the Girls' Brigade
will take place around you
as the afternoon goes on.
Just reading this leaflet is
an education.
I wasn't aware that half these
societies existed.
Well, some of them are quite new.
I've only just set them up.
May I keep this?
Actually, it's the only copy.
I was just on my way to the library,
to get it copied on the Roneo.
I think interest may be rather
brisk.
Hello! Would you like one?
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Can I give you one of these?
Ah, thanks.
Gosh! Looks like hard work.
Can I give you one of these?
No, thanks, dear.
Ah, now, Mrs Torpy,
this should interest you.
Particularly as a newcomer
to Poplar.
There are all sorts of clubs
and classes for you...
Well, and indeed for Sheryl.
You might like Girls' Brigade. It's
a uniformed Christian organisation.
Better than putting that muck
all over her face.
I'm practising for when I get a job.
A job down Cable Street,
looking like that.
And most importantly,
the ante-natal clinic would be
right up your street.
You can have all your routine
tests there,
and a reassuring chat with
a midwife every week.
God love you, but er, this is
my fourth, so when the time comes,
I'm just going to
ring for the ambulance.
Do yous do bingo?
Oh, bingo?
Well, never say never.
Well, if yous do bingo,
I'll be there every day.
Nobody's interested.
And I had visions of mounted
policemen
trying to control
the surging crowds.
Mounted policemen are already
booked.
I had to stay late for a briefing.
The Docks and Harbour Offices
are getting a royal visit.
Oh, but that's absolutely thrilling!
Is it the Queen?
No. The next best thing, though.
Her Royal Highness,
the Princess Margaret.
Oh, but I haven't seen her
since Pa was knighted.
Oh, we absolutely must join
the throng, to cheer her on.
It'll be quite a small throng.
It's just a trade
and industry engagement.
But that will bore her to tears!
And people would want to see her.
Princess Margaret is like royalty
and a film star rolled into one!
I suppose.
The docks and harbour
visit was her only invitation.
I find that hard to credit.
When's she coming?
Week on Tuesday.
Oh, do you know?
That's really quite fortuitous.
It's been a week
since Ian started penicillin.
But his phlegm's so thick
he can't seem to cough it up.
He needs to be in hospital.
They both do.
They need proper looking after
and I can't do it.
I'll speak to Doctor,
but you must trust him.
He deals with this
sort of thing every day.
Begging your pardon, Nurse.
So do we.
Every test I've run has
come back clear.
I'll refer both Ian and Martin
to the paediatric specialist
at the London, but...
What do you think's the matter,
Doctor?
I wish I knew.
How do you find Mrs Vickers'
state of mind?
Er, she's weepy, exhausted,
scarcely leaves the flat.
I've noticed she's started to let
her appearance go.
Women can develop depression up to
a year after the birth of a child.
May explain why she's
struggling to cope.
There is one other thing.
Billy - the children's father -
had a brother who
died at the age of four.
Some sort of chest complaint.
Do you think that might be
making them even more anxious?
Yes, I do! Absolutely, I do.
But that doesn't mean those
children aren't unwell.
No. I know that.
Oh, look at that.
It's the thickest and smoothest
writing paper I've ever seen.
It's always like that.
Even when it's only
the lady-in-waiting who writes.
But Chummy, they said yes!
I think it's tremendous!
Ssh! You know perfectly well you're
not supposed to be here!
Yes, and if the nuns wake up
and come down,
we'll have to lock
you in the larder.
And you'll never
get your fried egg sandwich.
We only let you in
because you bring your own Tabasco.
Come and sit down, Chummy.
I've got to get back to the baby.
Peter starts his night shift soon.
Oh, just for five minutes.
You look exhausted.
I've had wings on my heels all day,
and now I'm coming down to earth.
I've had to go to the police,
the council,
ring the lady-in-waiting three
times, and write a letter to Sister
Julienne... Ooh, which I need you to
put on her desk in the morning.
Gosh! What else have you had to do?
Amongst other things, nobble some
needlewomen for my Sewing Club,
and buy a book on flower arranging,
so I could teach
a flower arranging class.
I told the lady-in-waiting
that both exist already.
Well, I can teach flower arranging.
My godmother bought me lessons,
from Constance Spry.
What about the Cubs? They aren't
a figment of your imagination.
They're going to celebrate the
maritime connections to the East End
by re-enacting the story
of Grace Darling.
Jack Smith's going to play
the lighthouse.
Well, I think that sounds
absolutely lovely.
As will the Girls' Brigade band,
as they play
a fanfare for the Princess!
But Chummy, the Girls' Brigade band
is terrible! I should know.
I have to listen to them every week.
But I've promised
the lady-in-waiting. Mea culpa.
Well, I played
the bugle in the RAF cadets.
I could come and knock them into
shape. Would you really?
Give anything for a close-up
view of Princess Margaret.
♪ The angels listened in
♪ Listened in
♪ When they heard me praying
♪ The angels listened in
♪ Listened in
♪ When they heard me saying
♪ Please send me someone to love
♪ Send the one I am thinking of
♪ My darling, the angels sent you
♪ The angels listened in... ♪
Hello, everyone. This is Sheryl.
She's come to help us
out with our fanfare.
Ah, excellent! I hope you've got
a good strong pair of lungs.
I've got a cold sore.
I'll get you a drum.
♪..Gave me the whole wide world
♪ Wrapped up in one little girl
♪ My darling,
when the angels sent you... ♪
I was listening to the wireless.
Rain is forecast.
Come on, you.
You've done enough.
I hope so.
Baby Martin has desperate
trouble with digestion.
Ian has a cough,
and terrible diarrhoea.
They're both worryingly small.
It was the first thing I noticed
when I saw them.
I'm very much afraid it sounds like
"failure to thrive".
Failure to thrive isn't a diagnosis,
Sister!
They've used that term
since Victorian times.
Has an infection been ruled out?
Stool samples were tested, and swabs
taken, but they came back clear.
Dr Turner's tried everything.
It is the way their humours
are aligned!
I have a volume detailing just
the illness you describe.
It dates from
when Queen Anne was on the throne.
Really, Sister?
Yes, it says children such as these
will not survive five years.
And when their brow is kissed,
they taste of salt.
It is upstairs,
wrapped in chamois leather,
for its vibrations must be
shielded from refracted light.
We must tidy away.
It is time for high tea.
You say that as though high tea
will entice me to silence!
I have a repository of knowledge
to maintain.
You may leave a plate
of Marie biscuits by my door.
How are they?
Asleep.
I almost wish they'd wake,
cos when they sleep,
I think.
And when I think,
I worry
that I'm not in my right mind.
Sssh.
They take people away when they're
not in their right mind.
And what would happen then?
It's time for compline.
Sister Monica Joan?
What's that you're sewing?
It's a baby's nightdress.
Do you mean...?
I've no news yet.
But I've so much hope!
Every night, I put
a handful of stitches into this,
tiny cross-stitches, like kisses.
I suppose it's a prayer.
A little present for the future.
Sister Monica Joan,
come in out of the rain.
I have no need of shelter.
But you, you, Dr Turner,
if you wish to solve a mystery,
you must read this book.
I will. When I've taken you home.
Sister Monica Joan, where have you
been? You weren't at Compline.
She needs a warm drink, and tuck her
up with a hot water bottle.
Hark, Sister! He is a physician,
and a man, and expects to be
listened to.
If only he had ears
for the words of others.
Or eyes to read their books.
Peter.
It's today.
You're going to have to put
those books away
and get your jacket on,
or we'll be late.
One of these is shinier
than the other.
Did you get distracted
halfway through?
Yes, I did.
Oh, good Lord.
It's a good job I'm
out of your vision, young Sir,
because I'm sorry to say,
I look exactly like my mother.
That's my girl.
Come out and see the princess.
Fresh air will do us good.
Won't it?
Billy!
Something's happening.
I'll call an ambulance.
There's no time.
I'm worried we'll be late. The
mother whose baby I'm bathing is
going to meet me there at ten to.
Sister Monica Joan won't come
out of her room.
She can probably smell all that
lacquer on your hair.
I'd watch yourself
when you light the spirit lamp.
I feel sorry for Princess Margaret.
Imagine having to look enthralled
by someone boiling urine.
Help me.
He's fitting!
Thermometer and mucus extractor.
He can barely breathe.
Mother started running here as soon
as the twitching started
so that's just under four minutes.
I've cleared his throat,
and he's stopped fitting.
I brought the car.
The road's been closed for the royal
visit. Might delay the ambulance.
Temperature's 102, Doctor.
I think I have a diagnosis.
Might I see the child?
Yes.
I will do nothing untoward.
I know you won't.
Salt, like the sea.
There was no name for it, even then,
though they knew its meaning.
There is a name for it now.
It's called cystic fibrosis.
It's hereditary, which might explain
the death of Billy Vickers' brother.
Can it be cured, Doctor?
It can be treated.
We don't want finger marks.
Rogue sultana.
All right, lads...
It was a dark and stormy night.
Ooooooh!
And the waves were crashing
against the rocks!
Crasssssssssh! Crassssssssssh!
Inside the lighthouse,
Grace Darling turns to her father
and she says...
Oh Father, what terrible weather.
Grace Darling is a girl!
You're supposed to do it
in a girl's voice.
Like this, "Oh Father,
what terrible weather!"
We'll start again...
Nurse Franklin should be doing this.
Her Royal Highness will be
here in less than 15 minutes,
and not one member of staff
from Nonnatus House is here.
Well, I hope when they do come, one
of them's got Rennies in her bag.
Band ready!
Stop, girls.
I'm sorry.
What for?
If it runs in families,
then I passed it on to 'em.
And so did I. You heard
the doctors - it takes two.
This....
is what runs in families, Billy.
This.
Everything else, all the things
that are wrong or missing,
they're just...
Enzymes.
That's the word.
And the doctors say
they can give them artificial ones.
This, no-one can make.
No-one can take away.
I say, excuse me.
May I be of help?
We rang for the ambulance,
and it hasn't come.
Bleeding Princess Margaret.
My husband probably built
that road she's blocking.
I'm a nurse and a midwife.
I'm quite happy to sit with Mrs
Torpy until the ambulance arrives.
No. There's kids all over the place.
I don't want the racket of them.
There you are.
I hope you're not attached
to this settee.
My waters haven't gone yet.
Well, what's a loose cover
when a baby's on its way?
Chuck us a tea towel, or something.
Here you are.
That's it!
You show that bally pain who's boss!
Did I make a cow noise?
If I did, it means I'm getting
to the sharp end.
Mrs Torpy, I think
we should both remove our hats.
Sheryl, I want you to run straight
to Nonnatus House. Tell them
a midwife is required
at this address.
"Please" would be nice.
Bravo! Bravo!
That's it!
Full marks! I can see baby's head.
Are you sure?
It's the least mistakable sight in
the world. And the most miraculous.
Now then, old thing.
Baby isn't quite with us yet.
So with the next pain, we're going
to try and slow things down a bit.
A little less Gay Gordons,
slightly more Valeta.
Small pushes now. Small pushes!
Righty-ho.
Baby's with us as far as his chin.
Now I just want one more bally
enormous push
and we'll all be done and dusted.
Jesus, Mary and Joseph!
Is it not out yet?
I'm afraid not.
Seems we've got a bit of a shrinking
violet on our hands.
Good God, would you just tell it
to me straight?
I can't help you if
I don't know what you're on about!
It seems that baby's
shoulders are stuck.
If we work together,
we can free them.
Just, just tell me what to do.
I want you on the floor,
on all fours.
Yes?
That's it.
Jesus!
Now when you push, I'm going to see
if I can help him on his way.
Keep it coming, keep it coming,
keep it coming, that's it!
It's not bloody budging, is it?
No.
Can you get on to your left-hand
side?
Slowly, that's it.
Now, I need you to push absolutely
with all of your strength.
With the next pain?
No. I need you to push now.
Come on, little soldier.
Come on.
Play the game. Play the game.
It's all over.
And everything's just begun.
Talk about a day's work.
Yes.
Midwife! Open up!>
Chummy, are you all right?>
Never better.
You accomplished a very great deal
yesterday, Mrs Noakes.
It certainly was a rather
unusual afternoon.
It wasn't just the thrill
of a royal visit.
You coped with an extremely
difficult delivery alone.
You looked after Mrs Torpy
wonderfully.
I'm so glad.
Because I believe midwifery matters.
And caring for women matters.
It just so happens they're the only
things I've ever been
the smallest shred of use at.
You're also a good wife,
and an excellent mother.
Those are gifts too.
And I'm grateful.
I just worry that if Peter
and the baby are the only things
I have to love,
I'll end up crushing them
to death with
the weight of my devotion.
I put novelty vegetables
in lunch boxes
and sit up all night running up
soft furnishings.
I do too much, and it's,
well, it's never enough.
Do you want to come back to
Nonnatus House?
Would you have me back, Sister?
We're always short-staffed -
we're short of funds too.
I could find a position for you two
days each week - if you could
find suitable care for Freddie,
and if your husband were agreeable.
Peter's always agreeable,
he's not like other men.
But I suppose I'm not like other
women, really.
No. You're a nurse, and a midwife.
'Cystic fibrosis was,
and remains, a serious,
'lifelong condition.
Ian and Martin Vickers were
'among the first to know its name,
and to stand and fight it,
'with their families by their sides.
'Knowledge is a seed that can take
centuries to blossom.
'Understanding has grown,
and the children's chances with it.
'Lessons unfold everywhere.
'And sometimes a glance
in the mirror is enough.'
♪ What a difference a day makes
♪ There's a rainbow before me... ♪
Good luck, Chummy!
♪ Skies above can't be stormy
♪ Since that moment of bliss
♪ That thrilling kiss... ♪
♪ It's heaven when you
find romance... ♪
Nonnatus House. Midwife speaking.
♪ What a difference a day makes... ♪
We need a figurehead.
And it feels right
it should be one of you.
It's going to be a tight
ship from now on.
It weren't no love story, Nurse.
My husband can't ever
see this baby.
Knowledge is power, ladies.
Will someone tell that man
to pipe down?
The East End fascinates me.
It seems to exist in a world
outside of itself.
I think it's called poverty.
My mum said having me
was no more trouble than sneezing.
Not the forceps?
Please, Nurse, promise me.
All I care about is you.
It's maddening.
Do stop talking.
♪ It's heaven when you find romance
♪ On your menu
♪ What a difference a day makes
♪ And the difference is you... ♪
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org